So what could go wrong when we write Javascript code or when we expose our Javascript code? For that,
we also have to differ between writing code that runs in the browser and writing code that runs on the
server
and I will start with something that is only relevant if you're writing browser side Javascript code
and that would be security details in your code or private information in your Javascript code.
We'll also have a look at cross site scripting attacks though which is also relevant for browser
side Javascript code.
I'll briefly touch on cross site request forgery or CSRF attacks which is related to both frontend
backend code but which only works or only is a thing if you have some backend you're sending data
to and therefore I'll briefly talk about that as well and I'll revisit this concept of cross origin
resource sharing we already talked about earlier.
So let's start with the security details in your code,
what do I mean with that?
The important thing to understand about Javascript in the browser is that your Javascript code is part
of what the browser downloads and runs in the browser,
so all your code runs on the machine of your page visitors and it's important to understand that your
Javascript code can be read by them,
anyone who is visiting your page can read your Javascript code that runs on this page,
it's not hidden, it's not compiled to some unreadable machine code,
it's totally available to anyone visiting your page and that is super important.
Therefore any security relevant details you have in there,
any confidential data you have in there is exposed to your users and therefore it should not be in there,
you should not have security relevant information or confident data in your client side, in your browser
side Javascript code because attackers may be able to abuse that exposed data,
for example if you have your database credentials in there, attackers could read them and could connect
to your database to then read your data, change your data or do whatever they want to do or if you're
storing some client related data,
so about all your users, not just this user who's visiting your page but all users of your page,
if you have something like this in your browser side Javascript code, well then anyone can read it and
you might expose information about other people to all users.
So therefore because of this database example or any other data that might be confidential, you should
ensure that such does not end up in there
and let me show you what I mean. I'm back in our practice application we wrote,
so this application and you might remember that in the debugging section, we had a look at the sources
tab and there we actually could read the source code of this page, here in the assets scripts folder,
there it is.
Now of course here, we're seeing the code after webpack worked on it.
This is the code in development mode and therefore if you scroll enough at some point, you will find your
actual code and it will be quite readable because it's not minified because it's not optimized
at all.
So all of this actually will be quite accessible and quite readable if you scroll down far enough and
therefore anything you have in there is exposed,
for example if I scroll also the bottom where our script code should actually be found,
we see here it's hinting at location.js and if we scroll to the right, we actually find our code in
here,
this all inline code,
that's our code, it's of course a bit hard to read but it is readable and it's not just us who can read
that, anyone visiting our page can read that.
Now once you build for production, this will be optimized and it will be more unreadable
Bbut there are tools to make it a bit more readable, actually built here in the dev tools
if you click on pretty print, this code is formatted such that it's a bit easier to read
if it were minified and besides that if someone is really interested in getting your data, there
are certain pieces of data, like your database connection string and your password which is just a string
which of course will always be the same string, no matter if the other code is minified or not,
so such data can be found and can be used.
So any data which could be abused by other people should not go in there, should not go into your client
side Javascript code.
Now in this project specifically, you might be wondering about things like our Google API key, isn't that
for example a security relevant detail?
Well it could be but in Google's case or in the Google API key case here, you can actually restrict
the usage of that key in your Google developer console,
there you could restrict that only certain IP addresses can use that key so that only the IP address
where you are hosting your application can really send requests with that help of that key
and if anyone steals that key and tries to use it, Google will block requests by that person's IP address.
So this is some security mechanism which a lot of APIs offer if you use their API keys and therefore
this is not a security relevant detail. That would be a different thing though if we would expose data
from our backend, from this Node.js application.
Now keep in mind here, I loaded a different project, this is the Node.js application we wrote and there
for example in the location.js file, we are connecting to the MongoDB database, here I got my password
and my user name I use there.
Now this is data which is not exposed to our users because this is now actually only running on the
server through Node.js,
this runs on a machine and the user will never be able to see that code because this Javascript code is never
sent to the user,
it's never attached to the outgoing HTML page,
it's not loaded by any outgoing HTML page.
So this code here is secure, it runs on a server and unless users can access our server, which of course
requires them to effectively hack our server, they can't read that code,
so this code is secure but if this code here were in our client side Javascript code,
so in the code which is loaded by the browser and which the user can see, then users could see that data
and abuse it.
So long story short, don't put any important, confident information into your client side code,
users can read it and there is absolutely no way for you to avoid that. You can make that code harder
to read, you can minify it and so on but it will always be readable and people can therefore read it.